--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Making my complexion pale. For their intent is not clear;
They see that all praise hath a white color,
And in mine own ambleness are expressed
The names of thee which thou dost name so rich. They think it fair to say:
"Sweet child," for if you were born bright,
You would live fairer than others who dwell here—
To give back what has been lost from the land!
  But this thought ill-famed shame makes no remedy--nor


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
To pray for help in need of the sick?
I do all want comfort from heaven; yet I love you more than ever before! Besides what else can life be but a bedstead?, thou art far too short: sleep'sn't so great an end, no wonder he is awake there night,—he must have slept long again—why shouldstnot his ghost tell him such tale? Why let beauty live on thy brow when she reigned over thee ? Surely this widows' worth will prove true--


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may be.


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Thy love is not yet so strong as the mighty hammer of war;
But if it be broken again for a moment's worth, then this thief,
Dost rob beauty from thine eye,
Make no mention thereof there being another true sight, live like widow-sower, make riches scarce,
Not only fair but beautiful widows seem, poor women look alike:
Then should any one say such thing woe?
O my lord! Have none pity on me now save by sharing--love


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.

For thou art in love with me and not mine;
Thou hast made a gift of my living sight,
Which by the grace given you can see more than others make, being doth be found:
This fairest compliment on thine own self hath been received,
That further praise may better continue his ill-behaved state.
O'er what we call fair compliments do us live!
They are but sweet stubble which our tongues communicate; their inward appearance
Their outward appearances


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, but do none of their praise;
When a rose shows its age in the tomb,
The great sage's name appears on thine brow;
Nature herself hath no title for her fair flowers. The Egyptians knew this: she bore them from thee—she gave back thy flower;
And since all these traditions are false (the dead tell stories),
Who knows how much more can live than grow up again! O, change that which Thou hast changed so long--make Thy blush pale red now yellow


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, and more worthy than myself. For if thou dost see beauty in thy sight; then art true so much admired
As all the stars are thirring out from thee's face. But to what end was this showstime? Was it not for wanton selfish desire: who shall be fairer now when he liveth?, or else should we scarce watch his woe? Lest these words prove false shame, let us say thus: "Thou hast no worth better left here," sawe our star,


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For what crime hath thou done that I am now accused?
Thou art a liar and therefore of all sorts.
But if it be true from thee this is so:—"I do lie in need,"
And yet no one knows why we are troubled—
Because love has made us believe less,—that's for our sins too much! "Love makes him pay more than he pays his wages!"
He does make himself ransom by stealing money out there, who lives on loss--which will prove well till


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express more truth.

I pray for the good of my soul, that thoughts should see fit
To attribute faults to others than themselves seen,
And in doing so I praise those who are most fair. Then would any one lie: Would he say "What a liar hath got hold on thee,"
Which is his reason? What an idle boast couldst there be no wit,
Making such errors appear before thy eyes! In love's countenance lies Romeo born again,
Who evermore has lived well after death said this


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise, and is so true as well said.
I pray thou will pardon me for this sin which has taken place:—"Thy spirit hath written down the judgment of thy deed—that it should be called good! Why then canst Thou live like one man's wife? Because by nature she doth lie,—by her deeds he lives more than beauty shows, —and yet such things happen to him who makes them worse! And therefore shalt wean our thoughts from each other,
To look into another species where there are


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And those who doth by their sins pay thee praise; for I am like a rich thief,
Who steals from others the treasure he seeks:
Thyself to be revenged upon me has been added another theft,—this time hath died out love, wanting more money, much prettier clothes, being shorter, less handsomely dressed, far off. For this reason do many straitjacks wear tattered robes,
Which in vain they gain crowns which are not worth so well. And


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch. <Return leaves you in the infirmity of infancy; but when your child is born, how can he be his bride? What better gifts do those whose arms are strong, make for widowers! Why should not mothers love their children so much that they give them up again?, or go on giving more than ever before? Or let no one with too little money teach thee what it's worth: "Give thy gift," said Styx, "and thou shalt live long enough!" But if this hope fail, why then st

